Docs: Add Getting started with Grafana and Elasticsearch guide (#30285)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/getting-started/getting-started-elasticsearch.md

+++
title = "With Grafana and Elasticsearch"
description = "Guide for getting started with Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "intro", "guide", "started", "Elastic", "Elasticsearch"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/guides/gettingstarted","/docs/grafana/latest/guides/getting_started"]
weight = 400
+++

# Getting started with Grafana and Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch is a popular open source search and analytics engine for which Grafana provides out-of-the-box support. This topic walks you through the steps to create your first Elasticsearch backed dashboard in grafana to display any kind of data stored in your Elasticsearch database.

## Step 1. Install Grafana and build your first dashboard

Use the instructions in [Getting started with Grafana]({{< relref "getting-started.md" >}}) to:

- Install Grafana.
- Log in to Grafana.
- Create your first dashboard.

## Step 2. Download and install Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch can be installed on many different operating systems. Refer to the [Installing Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/install-elasticsearch.html) for a complete list of all available options.

> Alternately you can install Elasticsearch using the resources available in [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) GitHub repository (recommended). Here you will find a collection of supported data sources, including Elasticsearch, along with test data and pre-configured dashboards for use.

Reviewer: I would maybe say here something like - if they want to play/explore elastic data source and grafana, they can use `devenv/docker/blocs/elastic` to run elastic data source with random data . But I wouldn't say that you are installing Elasticsearch and that it is recommended.

Author: Good point. I actually copied this from other getting started guides we have, but I guess what was intended is that this is the recommended method to get started and play around, not to have a stable and production-ready system.
@oddlittlebird thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Agree with you both. Will also look forward to Diana's opinion.

Reviewer 3: You mean the dev environment? I think this guide is more for people wanting to actually use Elasticsearch with Grafana, so actual users. We have developer content in the Developers section. I would not reference the devenv here.

1. Clone the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository to your local system.
1. Install Docker or verify that it is installed on your machine.
1. Within your local `grafana` repository, change directory to [devenv](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).
   ```
   cd devenv
   ```
1. Run the bash command to setup data sources and dashboards.
   ```
   ./setup.sh
   ```
1. Restart the Grafana server.
1. Change directory back to the root directory.
   ```
   cd ..
   ```
1. Run the make command to create and start Elasticsearch.
   ```
    make devenv sources=elastic7
   ```

> This will create and start Elasticsearch, filebeat, metricbeat, kibana and a process that sends random data to your new Elasticsearch instance. We'll ignore filebeat, metricbeat and kibana in this guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This creates and starts Elasticsearch, Filebeat, Metricbeat, Kibana, and a process that sends random data to your new Elasticsearch instance. 
> **Note**:  Filebeat, Metricbeat, and Kibana are outside the scope of this topic.
```

> This will create and start Elasticsearch, filebeat, metricbeat, kibana and a process that sends random data to your new Elasticsearch instance. We'll ignore filebeat, metricbeat and kibana in this guide.

Reviewer: Does it start kibana as well? I didn't know that!

Author: yup! 🙂

## Step 3. Configure and add the Elasticsearch data source

> Once you have your Elasticsearch instance up and running and some process pushing data to it, you can configure your data source within Grafana.

Author: @achatterjee-grafana  what about:

```md
For more information on how to add a datasource, refer to [Add a data source](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/add-a-data-source/).
Check also out [Using Elasticsearch in Grafana](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/elasticsearch/) for a more detailed list of all available configuration options for Elasticsearch.
```

?

| `URL`    | The IP address/hostname and optional port of your Elasticsearch instance.                                 | `http://localhost:12200` |
| `Access` | whether to connect to your Elasticsearch instance from the browser or through Grafana's backend (Server). | `Server (default)`       |

### Elasticsearch details

| Name              | Description                                                                | Value                  |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `Index name`      | The index pattern used to identify indices you want to query with grafana. | `[metrics-]YYYY.MM.DD` |
| `Pattern`         | The time pattern for which the above index will be be interpolated.        | `Daily`                |
| `Time field name` | The name of the field that identiefies the timestamp of your documents.    | `@timestamp`           |
| `Version`         | The Elasticsearch version you are running.                                 | `7.0+`                 |

> Once you click **Save & Test** the following message will appear, confirming that Grafana is able to communicate with your elasticsearch instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you click **Save & Test** the following message will appear, confirming that Grafana is able to communicate with your Elasticsearch instance:
```

![Elasticsearch confirmation message](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/confirmation-7-4.png)

## Step 4. Create your first Elasticsearch backed dashboard

1. In the Grafana side menu, hover your cursor over the **Create** (plus) icon and then click **Dashboard**.
1. Click the **Add new panel** button.

If you made Elasticsearch your default data source by toggling `default` on when creating it, it should be already selected:

![Elasticsearch panel edit](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/panel-edit-7-4.png)

Otherwise you can select it from the data source picker:

![data source picker](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/datasource-picker-7-4.png)

> You can now start editing your query to get data out of your Elasticsearch instance.

Author: @achatterjee-grafana I slightly modified it to look like this:

![Screenshot 2021-01-25 at 12 42 20](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1170767/105707560-0a7a5380-5f0b-11eb-8c1f-13b4242784f9.png)

I feel that without having a proper context over the underlying data, putting here examples would just be confusing for beginners. 

I propose writing more examples when writing follow-up guides about filebeat and metricbeat, where the underlying data will be a core part of the guide. Wdyt?

> You can now start editing your query to get data out of your Elasticsearch instance.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.

## Next steps

> Now that you have your Elasticsearch powered Grafana dashboard you can start exploring different ways of querying your Elasticsearch index to get the most out of your data.

Author: what do you mean by "links to Explore"? 
External resources (added in https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/30285/files#diff-33e45c92c8c56f5f72a879740aad9393cf8a259d8c073d9a8d13f4927f7702a4R107) or to "our" Explore? because this wasn't a mention to it, maybe I should reword it?

> You can read more about topics not covered in this guide, such as [Elasticsearch aggregations](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-aggregations.html), [metricbeat](https://www.elastic.co/beats/metricbeat) and [filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/beats/filebeat) on [Elastic's website](https://www.elastic.co).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can read more about topics not covered in this topic, such as [Elasticsearch aggregations](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-aggregations.html), [metricbeat](https://www.elastic.co/beats/metricbeat) and [filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/beats/filebeat) on [Elastic's website](https://www.elastic.co).
```

Author: that's what i first wrote, but "topics not covered in this topic" sounded kinda strange, what do you think @achatterjee-grafana ?

+++
title = "With Grafana and Elasticsearch"

> description = "Guide for getting started with Grafana"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description = "Guide for getting started with Grafana and Elasticsearch"
```

1. Clone the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository to your local system.
1. Install Docker or verify that it is installed on your machine.

1. Within your local `grafana` repository, change directory to [devenv](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).

   ```
   cd devenv
   ```

1. Run the bash command to setup data sources and dashboards.

   ```
   ./setup.sh
   ```

1. Restart the Grafana server.
1. Change directory back to the root directory.

   ```
   cd ..
   ```

1. Run the make command to create and start Elasticsearch.

   ```
   make devenv sources=elastic7
   ```

This creates and starts Elasticsearch, Filebeat, Metricbeat, Kibana, and a process that sends random data to your new Elasticsearch instance.

> **Note**: Filebeat, Metricbeat, and Kibana are outside the scope of this topic.

## Step 2. Configure and add the Elasticsearch data source

Once you have your Elasticsearch instance up and running and some process pushing data to it, you can configure your data source within Grafana.

For information on how to add a datasource, refer to [Add a data source](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/add-a-data-source/).

> See also, [Using Elasticsearch in Grafana](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/elasticsearch/) for detailed list of all available configuration options for Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Refer to [Using Elasticsearch in Grafana](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/elasticsearch/) for detailed list of all available configuration options for Elasticsearch.
```

Reviewer 3: Is this topic title still correct, or did we change it to Elasticsearch data source? The link text should match the topic title whenever possible.

Author: Not sure i got this. "Using Elasticsearch in Grafana" is the title of the page this links to

> > **Note**: We'll assume you used the instructions from Grafana's devenv for simplicity, if this is not the case you may have to adapt the values in the tables below to match your use-case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Note**: We'll assume you used the instructions from Grafana's devenv for simplicity, if this is not the case you may have to adapt the values in the tables below to match your use case.
```

Author: I started the guide following https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/getting-started/getting-started-sql , where it explained how to set it up using our devenv. I thought these guides were targeted at people getting started with both Grafana and the specific datasource, thus just showcasing the "integrations".

There's this at the top that actually points to Elastic documentation on how to properly install Elasticsearch:

>Elasticsearch can be installed on many different operating systems. Refer to the Installing Elasticsearch for a complete list of all available options.
Alternately you can install Elasticsearch using the resources available in grafana/grafana GitHub repository. Here you will find a collection of supported data sources, including Elasticsearch, along with test data and preconfigured dashboards for use.

Reviewer 3: Ah, okay. Let's leave it for now, then.

@achatterjee-grafana, we should probably evaluate this in the not-distant future.

| `Access` | whether to connect to your Elasticsearch instance from the browser or through Grafana's backend (Server). | `Server (default)`       |

### Elasticsearch details

| Name              | Description                                                                | Value                  |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `Index name`      | The index pattern used to identify indices you want to query with grafana. | `[metrics-]YYYY.MM.DD` |
| `Pattern`         | The time pattern for which the above index will be be interpolated.        | `Daily`                |
| `Time field name` | The name of the field that identiefies the timestamp of your documents.    | `@timestamp`           |
| `Version`         | The Elasticsearch version you are running.                                 | `7.0+`                 |

Click **Save & Test**. The following message opens, confirming that Grafana is able to communicate with your Elasticsearch instance:

![Elasticsearch confirmation message](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/confirmation-7-4.png)

> ## Step 3. Create your first Elasticsearch backed dashboard

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 3. Create your first Elasticsearch-backed dashboard
```

1. In the Grafana side menu, hover your cursor over the **Create** (plus) icon and then click **Dashboard**.
1. Click the **Add new panel** button.

If you made Elasticsearch your default data source by toggling `default` on when creating it, it should be already selected:

![Elasticsearch panel edit](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/panel-edit-7-4.png)

Otherwise you can select it from the data source picker:

![data source picker](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/datasource-picker-7-4.png)

You can now start editing your query to get data out of your Elasticsearch instance.
The default query will graph the number of received documents in our index over the specidied period of time:

![Default query](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/default-query-7-4.png)

## Next steps

Now that you have your Elasticsearch powered Grafana dashboard you can start [exploring](/docs/grafana/latest/explore/) different ways of querying your Elasticsearch index to get the most out of your data.

> For more information, refer to [Elasticsearch aggregations](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-aggregations.html), [metricbeat](https://www.elastic.co/beats/metricbeat) and [filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/beats/filebeat) on [Elastic's website](https://www.elastic.co).

Reviewer 3: Are metricbeat and filebeat proper nouns? Should they be capitalized?

+++
title = "With Grafana and Elasticsearch"
description = "Guide for getting started with Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "intro", "guide", "started", "Elastic", "Elasticsearch"]

> aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/guides/gettingstarted","/docs/grafana/latest/guides/getting_started"]

Reviewer 2: Remove alias.

weight = 400
+++

# Getting started with Grafana and Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch is a popular open source search and analytics engine for which Grafana provides out-of-the-box support. This topic walks you through the steps to create your first Elasticsearch backed dashboard in grafana to display any kind of data stored in your Elasticsearch database.

> ## Step 1. Install Grafana and build your first dashboard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Before you begin, use the instructions in [Getting started with Grafana]({{< relref "getting-started.md" >}}) to install Grafana and build your first dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Let us remove this step. I will also update other relevant topics. Thanks!

Use the instructions in [Getting started with Grafana]({{< relref "getting-started.md" >}}) to:

- Install Grafana.
- Log in to Grafana.

> - Create your first dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Remove section.

> ## Step 2. Download and install Elasticsearch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1. Download and install Elasticsearch
```

Elasticsearch can be installed on many different operating systems. Refer to the [Installing Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/install-elasticsearch.html) for a complete list of all available options.

Alternately you can install Elasticsearch using the resources available in [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) GitHub repository. Here you will find a collection of supported data sources, including Elasticsearch, along with test data and preconfigured dashboards for use.

> Clone the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository to your local system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clone the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository to your local system.
```

> Install Docker or verify that it is installed on your machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Install Docker or verify that it is installed on your machine.
```

> Within your local `grafana` repository, change directory to [devenv](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Within your local `grafana` repository, change directory to [devenv](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).
```

```
cd devenv
```

> Run the bash command to setup data sources and dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Run the bash command to setup data sources and dashboards.
```

```
./setup.sh
```

> Restart the Grafana server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Restart the Grafana server.
```

> Change directory back to the root directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then change the directory back to the root directory.
```

```
cd ..
```

> Run the make command to create and start Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Run the make command to create and start Elasticsearch.
```

```
   make devenv sources=elastic7
```

This creates and starts Elasticsearch, Filebeat, Metricbeat, Kibana, and a process that sends random data to your new Elasticsearch instance.

> **Note**: Filebeat, Metricbeat, and Kibana are outside the scope of this topic.

## Step 3. Configure and add the Elasticsearch data source

Once you have your Elasticsearch instance up and running and some process pushing data to it, you can configure your data source within Grafana.

> For more information on how to add a datasource, refer to [Add a data source](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/add-a-data-source/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information on how to add a datasource, refer to [Add a data source](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/add-a-data-source/).
```

> Check also out [Using Elasticsearch in Grafana](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/elasticsearch/) for a more detailed list of all available configuration options for Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See also, [Using Elasticsearch in Grafana](/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/elasticsearch/) for detailed list of all available configuration options for Elasticsearch.
```

> To add the Elasticsearch data source:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the Elasticsearch data source:
```

1. In the Grafana side menu, hover your cursor over the **Configuration** (gear) icon and then click **Data Sources**.
1. Select the **Elasticsearch** option.
1. Click **Add data source** in the top right header to open the configuration page.
1. Enter the information specified in the tables below, then click **Save & Test**.

> > **Note**: We'll assume you used the instructions from Grafana's devenv for simplicity, if this is not the case you may have to adapt the values in the tables below to match your use-case.

Reviewer 2: Move note to above "To configure the Elasticsearch data source:"

| `URL`    | The IP address/hostname and optional port of your Elasticsearch instance.                                 | `http://localhost:12200` |
| `Access` | whether to connect to your Elasticsearch instance from the browser or through Grafana's backend (Server). | `Server (default)`       |

### Elasticsearch details

| Name              | Description                                                                | Value                  |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `Index name`      | The index pattern used to identify indices you want to query with grafana. | `[metrics-]YYYY.MM.DD` |
| `Pattern`         | The time pattern for which the above index will be be interpolated.        | `Daily`                |
| `Time field name` | The name of the field that identiefies the timestamp of your documents.    | `@timestamp`           |
| `Version`         | The Elasticsearch version you are running.                                 | `7.0+`                 |

> Once you click **Save & Test** the following message will appear, confirming that Grafana is able to communicate with your Elasticsearch instance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Save & Test**. The following message opens, confirming that Grafana is able to communicate with your Elasticsearch instance:
```

Reviewer 2: What happens if the connection fails? Any troubleshooting tips?

![Elasticsearch confirmation message](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/confirmation-7-4.png)

## Step 4. Create your first Elasticsearch backed dashboard

1. In the Grafana side menu, hover your cursor over the **Create** (plus) icon and then click **Dashboard**.

> 1. Click the **Add new panel** button.

Reviewer 2: They appear indented. Can you double-check?

Author: Appears like this when building locally

![Screenshot 2021-02-04 at 16 10 36](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1170767/106921147-a07c5e00-6703-11eb-9c53-187893c58da6.png)

Reviewer 3: They look good to me.

Reviewer 3: I suggest adding a sentence after the heading to help give the user an idea of what they'll be doing. Keep in mind that this topic is aimed at a Grafana beginner.

If you made Elasticsearch your default data source by toggling `default` on when creating it, it should be already selected:

![Elasticsearch panel edit](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/panel-edit-7-4.png)

Otherwise you can select it from the data source picker:

![data source picker](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/datasource-picker-7-4.png)

You can now start editing your query to get data out of your Elasticsearch instance.
The default query will graph the number of received documents in our index over the specidied period of time:

![Default query](/img/docs/getting-started/elasticsearch/default-query-7-4.png)

## Next steps

> Now that you have your Elasticsearch powered Grafana dashboard you can start [exploring](/docs/grafana/latest/explore/) different ways of querying your Elasticsearch index to get the most out of your data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have your Elasticsearch powered Grafana dashboard you can start [exploring](/docs/grafana/latest/explore/_index.md) different ways of querying your Elasticsearch index to get the most out of your data.
```

Author: This doesn't work when building the website locally.

Reviewer 3: Update from Master. This was a recent change, and it is correct.
